
sigplus: an image gallery distribution for Joomla

Copyright 2009-2011 Levente Hunyadi
http://hunyadi.info.hu/projects/sigplus


DESCRIPTION

sigplus Image Gallery Plus (or sigplus in short) is a straightforward
way to add image or photo galleries to a Joomla article with a simple
syntax. It takes a matter of minutes to set up a gallery but those who
are looking for a powerful gallery solution will not be disappointed
either: sigplus is suitable for both beginner and advanced users.

Even while simple to use, sigplus offers an impressive set of features.
Images suitable for gallery preview are automatically generated with
cropping and/or centering, and clicking on a preview image brings up a
pop-up window overlay showing the original image without navigating away
from the current page. Images in a gallery can be displayed in fixed or
flow layout, they can be shown on a slider or carousel/rotator, or an
image can blend into another using a fancy transition effect. Appearance
and behavior are highly configurable including margin, border, padding,
orientation (horizontal or vertical), animation speed, slideshow delay,
image sort order, etc.

Despite its versatility, sigplus is completely free. It is a
full-fledged product with all features included, there is no commercial
professional version with extra features or paid club membership that
grants you additional privileges. Since its publication in the Joomla
Extensions Directory in March 2010, sigplus has been rated the best
extension in the "Photo gallery" category.


FEATURES

* user-selectable pop-up window engine, including boxplus (specifically
designed for sigplus), Fancybox, SexyLightbox and Slimbox

* user-selectable image slider, carousel/rotator or image transition
effect

* free-flow and grid layout mode; row, column and grid arrangement

* support for image types .jpg, .png and .gif (with and without
transparency)

* best-fit thumbnail generation with automatic cropping and centering

* progressive load feature to save network bandwidth: only those images
are fetched from the server that are being shown

* multiple galleries per content item and per page

* multilingual, search engine-friendly image labels and more verbose
description set globally or for each individual image

* right-to-left language support

* download option to save high-resolution image version

* image metadata processing; IPTC and EXIF data extraction

* custom styling (preview image margin, border, padding and opacity,
slide duration and animation delay)

* custom sort criteria (user-defined, file name, last modification time
and random order)

* large gallery support (100 or more images in a single gallery)

* 100% CSS and JavaScript, valid XHTML 1.0 and 1.1, passes WCAG v2 AAA
automatic validation

* default global settings for the entire site and local parameter
overrides for individual galleries

* restricted-access galleries and more...


REQUIREMENTS

PHP 5.2 or later
GD2 and/or ImageMagick library